---
title: Building a Blog With Haskell
slug: build_a_blog_with_haskell
locale: en
created_at: 2023-12-02T00:00:00.001Z
description: Reflection on building a blog with Haskell
tags:
- haskell
- blog
- project
- aws
---
<section>
## Context
For sometime now I've been a Haskell hobbyist tinkering with the language and exploring some of the mathematical foundations of the language. Most of the project I built thus far were small side projects meant for my own learning. Most of them were incomplete and/or far from usable. For a long time I didn't think I could build anything worth while with Haskell, but I finally decided to drop that mentality and ponder real projects I could build with the language. Since I was looking for a new job opportunity and a public dump for my thoughts, I decided to build a blog with Haskell.

</section>
<section>
## Objective
The objective of this project was to build a blog with Haskell. I actually tried building one in the past with Hakyll, which I [shamelessly deployed](http://kskkido-hlog.s3-website-ap-northeast-1.amazonaws.com/) with the hopes of adding content later (and a proper domain). The issue was that I started getting caught up in UI animations and aesthetics, which trapped me in Javascript land with RxJS. The end result was a RAM hogging website that was far from useful. More importantly, I wanted to try building the static site generator myself rather than using [Hakyll](https://jaspervdj.be/hakyll/). This left me with the goal of building a basic blog that renders taggable articles written in markdown as html using Haskell.

</section>

<section>
## Implementation
The project is a monorepo made up of 4 packages including development packages. The source code is available on [GitHub](https://github.com/kskkido/kskkido)

</section>
<section>
#### kskkido-blog
This package contains the core Haskell modules that builds static HTML files from articles written in markdown. All the content on this website is generated by this package.

I explain the structure of the application [in this post](/en/posts/structuring_a_haskell_application)

</section>
<section>
#### kskkido-blog-assets
This package contains all assets (ie: Javascript, CSS, media) in the blog. All client side scripts are transpiled from Typescript using esbuild and the CSS files contain Tailwind CSS and a few custom classes. Planning to replace Typescript with Purescript for fun. 

</section>
<section>
#### kskkido-blog-server
This package runs a very simple Haskell Servant server that distributes the HTML pages generated by <em>kskkido-blog</em> and <em>kskkido-blog-assets</em> as static content. This is solely for running the blog in my local environment.

</section>
<section>
#### kskkido-blog-infra
This package defines all the necessary AWS resources for the blog using AWS CDK. The blog is deployed to an AWS S3 Bucket, which sits behind Cloudfront with a sprinkle of Lambda Edge functions for routing.

</section>
